By the way, I don't have AI psychosis. I
have a Claude complex.
>> Why is everyone making that joke?
>> Wait, which joke?
>> The psychosis joke.
>> I thought you were gonna be proud of me
for saying claude complex.
>> Oh. Oh, that is very good.
>> I It's like I do one pun finally for
Tracy and she's just like, "Why is it
ever making that joke?"
>> Well, I was thinking about I was handing
you a I finally make a pun and you just
jump right over it.
>> Well, everyone keeps saying that Claude
code is AI psychosis for smart people,
right? Like, how did that become a
thing? Very addictive.
>> Yeah. All right.
>> But there's a good pun.
>> It's also very brocoded, I find.
>> Hello and welcome to another episode of
the OddLots podcast. I'm Joe Weisenthal.
>> And I'm Tracy Aloway.
>> So Tracy, you're cool. Like if I like,
you know, just start doing this
part-time as I like build out my
software business, right? Like you're
cool about that, right? I was going to
say I've been thinking about AI and
productivity and so far your
productivity has gone down Joe because
instead of doing OddLots things you're
coding your own software
>> except that I'm creating content for the
OddLots newsletter about coding and that
is productivity um accreative
>> debatable
>> debatable but but you're cool with that
you're cool with like me like oh I'm
just going to like check in part time on
odd lots when we have a recording well
like
>> oh of course not good of course not good
that's the right answer. I want you to I
want you to be really sad. But like a
few other people, you know, I have like
caught the sort of like bug of like AI
coding and I'm totally blown away. I've
like played with it from the be I
started playing around with it last
year, but then over the holidays and
I've been writing about this in the
newsletter. Suddenly like my Twitter
feed is like cloud code, cloud code,
cloud code. I used cursor before
>> which I was very impressed by at the
time. And um so when I got home from
vacation, one of the first things I did
is like figure out how to install Cloud
Code on my computer and I was like, "Oh,
I am like hooked." And this is actually
like I I see why half my Twitter feed is
just like people posting about this.
>> All right, so I have to say I have not
tried it because I only have a work
computer and I can't install new
software. Um and I probably definitely
cannot install new software that then
makes changes to existing software. I
don't think Bloomberg would like that.
Um, but I have seen the hype. Lots of
people talking about it. Have you seen
um Claude Co.? Have you heard of that?
>> Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, one of the
criticisms of Claude Code was that, you
know, like, okay, you could code, but
you still need some background knowledge
in coding cuz like, you know, the
interface is kind of like 1980s and
>> and all of that or 1990s. Um, co-work
apparently like goes a step further for
for normal people in coding and makes it
super super easy. And the funniest thing
is that apparently Claude code actually
coded co-work. So the so this is like
really relates to my experience last
year and then this year which is that
even last year like trying to use the AI
coding tools. It was an annoying process
because there are various things that
you had to do in the actual command line
of the computer
>> that were like I didn't I don't know
command line vernacular and you have to
like install these libraries and stuff.
So there was this sort of like barrier
that existed and but what's what's
really changed in the last year or with
the with claude code which has actually
been around for a while and I should
have like played with it before is that
like because it sits on your computer
it's sort of takes away it dects it and
so when you talk about like does the
stuff
>> it does it it just like oh it's like oh
we're going to need to install this open
source natural language processing
library it just does it automatically
instead of me try and like figure out
like what are the right keystrokes to
pull that in or why is this not going
into the right file folder or whatever.
And so like what like co-work it's like
all like all of these sort of like
little frictions like these technical
things like command line user very
rapidly are like dissipating. Yeah.
>> And so that like then you have something
like co-work like they know they're
taking care of that and so you get this
like user interface that's just like
it's just getting easier and friendlier.
There's almost no technical frictions at
all anymore.
>> Also, it feels very iterative like the
code is improving upon itself at this
point and I think that was one of
Claude's main selling points. Well, this
is like you've seen like people talk
about like oh is AGI here and this is
like part of the debate because the prem
one of the ideas I guess behind AGI is
like well what happens when you have
software that can train itself and so
forth and I don't really know if I buy
that but you do just see like how fast
the iteration cycles are and I think we
uh want to get into this be in part
they're fast because a bunch of people
are suddenly getting excited so then the
human provides this sort of like
>> we're sewing the seeds of our own demise
because we're so enthusiastically
participating in the evolution, but I
just like it's suddenly clear like oh
this is going to change I think
computing and the other thing is the
code works like it creates code that
like this is like there's no bugs you
know it works.
>> Um [clears throat] did you see speaking
of automating yourself did you see there
was a post on Reddit from a lawyer who
said he's basically used claude code to
automate like his entire job and he
hasn't told anyone. I'm not exactly
surprised because the other thing that I
experimented with
>> is and I haven't 100% verified this but
on jobs day last week
>> I downloaded the full PDF and I just
typed into the cloud code like find the
most interesting details and make some
charts based on and it did it in like a
couple minutes. I have no like ability
to like I've never like built charts
myself by hand or whatever or like
design it or whatever. And I didn't
totally confirm yet that the data was
all correct but I'm pretty [snorts] sure
it was cuz everything I spot checked. So
I didn't
>> just that crucial detail.
>> Yeah, I know. I didn't that's why I
didn't want to like oh like here's what
here's the today's jobs report and
charts but mo my
>> but what application did it actually
build it in the charts?
>> I don't know. I just had a file like
that's the thing. I had a file on my
computer at that point.
>> What kind of file?
>> Like a PNG file like an image file.
That's the crazy thing. I don't know.
Um, and so there was just this image
that had a bunch of charts and my spot
checks did suggest like I didn't see
anything off and people get paid money
to like build that kind of stuff for
like analysts and stuff like that and
>> right so this is the other big question
if everyone can build their own software
what actually happens to software and I
was reading something I forget who it
was by but someone used claude code to
create they wanted a website that would
basically make them money for doing
nothing and that was the prompt and
>> did they do it?
>> Yeah. So, the idea that um the model
came up with was you can sell prompts,
packages of good prompts and sell them
for like 40 bucks and you'll make tons
of money.
>> And I was thinking about that like,
okay, it's possible to make money that
way, but also why wouldn't I just use
clawed code to do the same thing?
>> Uh there are many big questions that we
as an economy are going to have to think
about and I think my main takeaway is
we're going to have to think about these
sooner rather than later. But what is
Cloud? Why is everyone so hyped about
it? Like what is it about this
particular piece of software that versus
what exists from OpenAI and Gemini and
all this stuff? Like why has this
captured everyone's imagination? We
really do have the perfect guys because
it's someone who unlike me has been
getting their hands dirty in this stuff
for longer. one of the few people that I
know who was into LLMs before chat GPT
existed and was actually using them via
the API and was actually talking about
their technical capacity to do things
like coding even before November of
2022. So truly the perfect guest. We're
going to be speaking with Noah Brier.
He's the co-founder of Alfic, a
consultancy that helps big companies
deal with AI stuff. So, uh, Noah, thank
you so much for coming on OddLots.
>> Thank you for having me.
>> What's the deal? How were you like using
LLMs before ChatGpt existed? I don't
know. I I know very few people who were
doing that.
>> I had the good fortune of shutting down
a startup in 2022 and so I had a lot of
free time on my hands.
>> And then how are you using it though?
Like how did you like your like how did
you aware that there was this thing that
could be of potential use to you? What
were
>> So my very first thing I was doing was
using GitHub Copilot which at the time
was built into VS Code and it was
autocomplete inside VS Code. So it was a
nice and pretty immediately realized
that there were certain coding tasks
that it could just handle completely. Um
anything that was very patternbased. So
if you write code, you write a lot of
tests. If you write tests, every test
kind of follows the same pattern and you
want it to follow the same pattern.
You're looking for that structure and
and over time because it was looking at
your codebase, it was able to basically
autocomplete it. Uh, I also started
playing with the GPT3 API which had come
out. I think that came out in November
of 2021
>> and that was the first time it was
publicly available to everybody and they
had a large language bundle as we know
it today
>> available to them. So I was just testing
and building things and I pretty
immediately
realized the very first thing I did
where it it just blew my mind was I
built a web scraper. So, I was I was
just trying to pull pricing data from a
website. And [snorts] I've done a lot of
this in my career. It's maybe the most
annoying task you have to do in all of
coding because HTML is the most
miserable language to have to parse. And
I just had this thing where I took the
page, I took the content, I took the
text, and I gave it to the AI. And I
asked it to give me back the pricing
table. And it gave me back the pricing
table. And I just thought, I'll never do
it the other way again. That's it.
>> Yeah. That HTML mention just brought up
like memories of me in like the mid 90s
on HTML goodies. Do you remember that
site? Yeah. I wonder if it's still is it
still up? That would be wild. Um
>> does claude code does that count as AGI?
This seems to be the debate, right? Is
it AGI?
>> I try not to wait into what's AGI and
what's not. I think my guess on on AGI
for what it's worth is that it's
probably going to be a conversation like
the Turing test where everybody thought
it was really really important for a
really long time. We thought the touring
test was the biggest thing
>> for 70 years or whatever and then
>> CHBT very clearly passed the touring
test and now everybody pretends like
it's not just that they forgot they
pretend that it never mattered.
>> Oh,
>> and so I I am kind of guessing that
that's going to be what the conversation
is like. it's just going to be a sort of
forever moving goalpost. Um because it
turns out that the idea we had for what
general intelligence looks like is not
quite that. Um but I also think you know
the computer scientists and the sort of
serious AI researchers would say that
much of what's going on inside quad code
is not the model itself. It's the model
paired with a human.
>> And I I think that is a pretty important
distinction but I don't know about AGI.
>> Well, okay. So you were using um GPT to
code prior to the release of Jad GPT. So
therefore coding models have been around
a long time. So what is for those who
haven't played played around with it?
What is clawed code? Because again
coding models have been around for a
long time. They've c people maybe have
heard of cursor or copilot or some of
these other harnesses etc. What is
claude code?
>> So if we back up first and we go to
copilot. So copilot was the first sort
of commercial application of a large
language model
>> by most accounts and what copilot did in
its initial instantiation was just auto
>> it's a Microsoft product
>> it's a Microsoft product so Microsoft
owns GitHub GitHub developed copilot um
it was Microsoft had the partnership
with open AAI and so they they built it
in and what it was doing was doing
autocomplete so if you're writing code a
lot of writing code is boilerplate or
trying to remember the name of a
function and you know the reason Stack
Overflow existed was because you can
never remember the exact name of that
function or or the exact reax that you
need to use in order to find and replace
something. And so you would go search
for it and they realized that you could
just build that into the IDE uh your
code editor and and have it autocomplete
for you. And it it was pretty amazing.
Yeah.
>> Um then uh chat GPT came out and even
before that I had built a simple chatbot
for myself because I realized that hey I
could just ask this and instead of going
and searching stack overflow it was
totally capable of as answering code
questions and it was capable of writing
reax or doing these things and did it
make mistakes? Yes. But like there's
famous mistakes on stack overflow of
incorrect reax that now exists in every
codebase in the world. Um, and so, you
know, I there were a lot of us just kind
of playing with these things and and
realizing they were a huge boon. And so
I think really the next step is cursor
comes out and the thing cursor realized
that copilot didn't was that it wasn't
good enough to have autocomplete. You
also needed the Q&A because you have
these things that you can't just
autocomplete. You want to be able to ask
the question and answer it. And then
chatb came out and everybody was
switching between IDE. Um, and then I
think really the next big piece is that
Cloud Code came out. And what Cloud Code
did that was so remarkable was they took
the same set of models really [snorts]
um and they took them out of the chatbot
and they really just gave it some very
basic functionality to operate within
your machine, right? And so you know if
you really look at kind of what exists
within cloud code, you're calling out to
a model and you they gave it capability
around sort of two big things. One is
you can read and write files on your
computer. Um, and then two is that you
can operate Unix, the the base commands,
the bash commands that exist in your
environment. Um, and again, because
these models were trained on the
internet, and there's no greater source
of information on the internet than how
to make the internet, they know how to
use
>> Unix commands incredibly well, right?
Because Unix has existed for whatever it
is, 60 years. And the way these commands
were designed, they're all designed to
be very, very simple. there's a find
command and you know there's thing
called GP and it can search through a
codebase and um Unix has this sort of
beautiful way of tying one command to
another so you can take the output of
one command and send it to another
>> and they kind of just gave the model
access to these two or three very simple
things and it kind of turned out that it
unlocked a whole bunch of functionality
that I don't think even the people who
built it fully realize like
>> one example that I I think about a lot
is just the challenge you have with all
of these AI models is that they're
stateless. So every time you talk to
chat GPT, it's sending your entire
conversation history back to chat GPT
because it has no saved history of that
chat, right? And that's fine. It's the
way it works. It's just fact. But it
means that you know it forgets things.
It doesn't know conversation to
conversation. And one very easy way to
save your state is just write it to a
file. Um, and so you give it write
access and it can create files. And now
all of a sudden you've overcome this
like probably the single biggest
challenge that exists inside these large
language bottles which is that they're
fundamentally stateless.
>> So Claude writes itself little like
memory notes, right, to to remember the
entire context of the conversation. And
that's how it solved that problem.
>> No. So there there's sort of two things
going on in clawed code beneath the
hood. There's one thing that works
exactly like chat GPT or any of these
other ones, which is it's maintaining a
conversation history. So every
>> message you send it and every um action
it takes, it's recording to a log,
right?
>> Um which is just one big file. That's
really no different than what chat GPT
can do. Where it gets really interesting
though is it can also write files that
it can then read. So whereas that
conversation history is all saved off
and eventually that conversation gets
too long and it needs to do a thing
called compaction and um when it
compacts it it tries to sort of just
remember the bits because there the
total window is is is
large but I mean it's like 100,000
tokens.
>> That's what I mean by memory notes,
right? It compacts the information into
the important stuff that it then
retrieve. It does that. It only does
that at the end like once it runs out of
space. Okay. Once it runs out of context
window. So it has 200,000 tokens I
think. And 200,000 tokens in rough terms
is probably 150,000 words.
>> Um it says, "Okay, it's time for me to
compact all of this stuff." And so it
still saves your whole history on your
computer. you still have the entire
message, but for that session, it just
compacts it down to this, you know,
>> maybe 25,000 token memory of what it
was.
>> Yeah.
>> Um, and is this like something that was
not obvious before as a solution?
>> Like this compaction, how important is
it for this being like, okay, as a
human, I can work on this on a project
for a long time. Like how much of an an
unlock was that?
>> I'm not sure. Compaction was the unlock.
I think the compaction functionality is
>> helpful.
>> Okay.
>> The way ChatGpt does it for what it's
worth is they don't do compaction. They
just forget your messages eventually. So
if you're in one chat, eventually your
oldest message is going to fall off the
back.
>> For coding, that's probably less
helpful.
>> But there are trade-offs. I both
techniques work. I think fundamentally
the thing that is special about cloud
code is not the compaction. It's the
It's the ability to write and read files
on your computer. Yeah. Which means you
can always write off memories. And then
>> what does that mean, write off memories?
>> So you could say, "Hey, I it's really
important that I remember this thing for
future sessions. I want to always work
this way." So in a codebase of mine um
uh I have a set of documentation that
explains how I like to do things. And
Cloud Code makes a mistake. And so the
next time I can write a memory
essentially, it's it's written as a a
thing they call a skill. Um, and you can
write it off and you can say, "Hey,
whenever you run into this, I want you
to operate in this kind of way." And
that existing across every session is
really a thing you can only do when you
can store it as a file.
>> Yeah,
>> it's a thing you can't do in quite the
same way when you're operating in this
environment where it's just going back
and forth to the API. So, this access to
the file system is one really big piece.
And then the second is is just the Unix
commands. I mean computers, every
computer program lives on top of these
sort of baseline
functions and the way that the designers
of Unix built them is really elegant and
they're very small. They all do one
thing and they're all composable and in
uh coding terms composable means they
can be they can be chained together,
right? And so you can say, "Hey, look
for files that mention this word." And
then from those files, I want you to
take this second action. And then from
the output of that action, I want you to
take a third action. And that's just
built into Unix. You literally just put
a a little pipe in between. And you just
pipe them from one to another. And and
that's it. And so you give it access to
write these commands and all of a sudden
it gets these sort of second and third
order effects that are just incredibly
powerful and built over a really long
time. So how much of clawed code the way
it's different to other models how much
of that was overcoming technological
challenges versus like just having a
good idea because hearing you describe
it I mean giving access to a computer
seems like kind of obvious like let's
let's just do that.
>> I don't have a good answer to that. I
think that it was kind of just a good
idea.
>> Yeah.
>> I think they did some patterns really
well. are clearly incredibly talented
not just engineers but kind of thinkers
about how to structure it like uh the
the primitives inside cloud code are
just smart and then the thing that
they've done and and Boris Churnney
who's the uh lead developer on
cloudcoded anthropic he talks about um
latent demand a lot right and latent
demand is basically just hey look at the
ways people are using these systems and
then figure out ways to make that a part
of the product itself I think what
they've done brilliantly And this is
kind of easy when you have a community
of developers who are nerds who want to
go talk about all the ways that they're
using these things is they have I am
amazed at the speed in which you know I
have a small community of 15 CTOs who
all use this stuff religiously and you
know when we first started that
community it took them a month to I
would see it in the chat and then a
month later it would get built into
cloud code and then increasingly it's
like a day later it feels like they're
just they're just listening to it but I
think they're just not only tapped in
but they're really fundamentally
um you know they're they're dog fooding
it. They they use their own products.
When you um you know they talk about the
productivity engineering productivity at
Anthropic um you know despite growing at
a crazy clip it continues to go up and
and you know anybody who's built had to
manage large scale pieces of software
large scale code bases knows that's not
the norm.
>> So VS code and cursor these are idees.
Claude code is not an ID. What is it?
It's called a CLI. Is that
>> a CLI? A command line interface.
>> Got it. And the other labs now they also
have CLIs. So why are we all talking
about claude code? And I I chat GPTs is
called Codeex. I don't know what Geminis
is called.
>> I think it's just called the Gemini CLI.
>> Why are we all talking about Claude code
rather than the other CLI that kind of
have the same thing? Like what is the
difference?
>> I think first and foremost they were
first.
>> Okay. So, um, and I think they've
they've had a lot more. And, you know,
for my very personal opinion, I think
they've done some things smarter and
better as far as the permissioning
models. So, you know, one of the really
dangerous things is you've got this
thing running on your computer. You
don't want it to go and delete
everything, right?
>> And, um, they have a very fine grain
permissioning model where you can say,
"Hey, I want to allow this just this one
time. Want to always allow it." You
know,
>> I always click always allow. I'm living
on the edge. you can you can uh next
time you run it, you can just do a flag
that says dangerously skip permissions.
Um and and it'll just uh they call it
yolo mode. Um I think I think more
fundamentally though if I look at at
codeex versus cloud code I think it's a
a difference in philosophy around what
you want AI to do. Um, to me, Codex,
which is excellent, is very focused on
building an agent that you can just give
something to and it'll just go do it.
So, I want to give it that task. I don't
want to intercede. I don't want to give
it any more feedback. [snorts] And
Claude code is much more designed to be
uh kind of a pair programmer. And so,
you know, in engineering, pair
programming has existed for a while.
It's a really weird sort of productivity
thing where you put two engineers on the
same problem and it turns out that you
can get better code force multip.
>> Yeah. And it sort of makes up for the
fact that obviously, you know, you're
doubling the staff on it, but because of
how many fewer bugs because you have
both sets of eyes, it it has seemed to
work out for many folks. Most companies
don't practice it. But I think cloud
code fundamentally is much more designed
in that way. It's a pair programmer.
It's uh they you know whenever I start a
project uh I start in plan mode. So you
start in plan mode. You put together a
plan. I really I mean I spend a lot of
time in plan mode. You go through you it
gives you a plan back. It asks you how
you feel. You can give it a whole bunch
of direction. And then it's only then
that it goes off and it goes into it. So
you know we're working together. And I
actually have a whole system now that
I've designed where um uh I use a a task
management system called linear. So I
have claude code write tasks off to
linear. And then I've worked uh with
claude code to write a document that
helps sort of decide a set of
heruristics to decide when you should
assign it to codeex versus when you
should give it to claude code. And so if
it's tightly defined enough and simple
enough, I just send it off to codeex and
it does it totally independently.
>> And then if it's complicated enough that
I think it requires my time and
attention, then it it saves it for me us
to do together.
>> Um and we'll work on it together. and
and so if it's it's sort of touching a a
kind of important enough if it's
changing some part of the data model
there's these other kind of you know
fairly basic set of criteria that I use
and um but that that to me is the
fundamental distinction and and um you
know I find cloud code in that way to be
just it sort of fits what I want to do
and how I want to work uh much better.
talk a little bit more about how it
actually impacts the workflow of an
engineer because you know my impression
was people can code right like the
coding problem is kind of solved at this
point and even if you can't code even if
you're not a professional engineer you
can hire someone from like India or
Indonesia or wherever to just write you
a code maybe it'll take them a week
instead of like two days with clawed
code but how much does this actually
change the workflow for an engineer
>> as completely as it could be changed. I
mean I would say that over the last
three months I've written personally I
don't know a few hundred lines of code
like I I am mostly a manager of a set of
agents who are writing code on my behalf
and you know increasingly what I think
is interesting I I've been thinking
about this a bunch lately is like in
some ways it's just bringing me back to
the core challenge that has always
existed in software development which is
how do you manage a large scale software
development project, right?
>> It has become a coordination problem and
um and I spend a lot of time sort of now
designing
my clawed code system to ensure that
code goes through all the proper spec
checks and that it it has all these
things. The other thing that you know uh
makes code a particularly good place to
do this is that code is verifiable in a
way that you know most other work is
not. So, you know, with code you can
verify that the build works, right? So,
you can say, hey, I want to build this.
I want to build this package. I want to
make sure that it's actually going to
build and that there's going to be no
failures. That's a very easy check. It's
either true or it's not true. Um there's
also uh coders use linting. And so,
linting is a way to kind of um look, it
it's static code analysis. So it
basically tries to sort of find um uh
things in your codebase that are not
going to work ahead of time where you
can predict that obviously you can't
predict um uh Alan Turing proved that
you can't predict uh with certainty
whether code is going to run but there
are certain patterns and things that it
it can find it's essentially does static
pattern analysis and um so you know you
have it run all these things but um the
more kind of opinionated you can be
about that and the more steps you can
have it go through so I find you know
Now I'm I'm kind of the designer, which
honestly as an entrepreneur and as a CEO
of companies, like that's kind of always
been my job. Like I've I've been not
I've less and less been a person who
writes code and more and more been a
person who designs a system, in that
case a company with a bunch of people
who write code.
>> Um, one of the funny things it seems to
me is that setting aside Claude code,
Claude itself has a reputation for it's
a nicer chatbot to talk to. people find
it um and you know Chad GPT seems to
really be psychopantic. I still think
it's I know it's approved but I actually
don't think it's improved enough. I
still people like the pros style of um
Claude Claude and I'm curious that in
the pair trading pair trading I'm
thinking about finance the pair
engineering model whether there is also
an edge there which is like here is a
chatbot that is not annoying to talk to
while you're iterating and whether that
is like a meaningful distinction between
you know coding with codecs or whatever.
Yeah, I I don't know. I It still can be
very annoying, I will tell you. And
it'll still sometimes um be overly um uh
overly affusive with me about a a design
choice I made or or sort of noticing
something um which I I could live
without.
>> I So I'm working on this project that's
uh doing this linguistic things and I
eventually had to say like give it to me
straight. How bad is this? And then so I
said I said actually what I said was and
assume for a moment that you are a
quantitative linguistics with a PhD.
Give me your honest assessment of where
we are with this. And it said like
you've developed a nice toy and there's
no evidence that it actually does. And I
was like okay that's nice to hear. I
actually like you know I appreciate
that. And it was like very blunt. Not
you know it's still like polite but it
was like this doesn't you haven't really
shown anything. you haven't really
established at all that your software
does what it claims to.
>> Yeah, I think so. I think stylistically
I I kind of personally agree. I my
theory, by the way, on on Claude versus
uh OpenAI chat GPD models is I think
Claude is actually better at sort of
reflecting what you give it. Um, and so
I think part of why we think it's better
is it it's better at pretending it's us.
And so we tend to like that is this is
purely uh speculation but that's always
been my theory on on
>> so it flatters you in a different way.
>> I think it's flattering you in a much
more subtle way.
>> Interesting. Um but uh for a long time
just uh anthropic has been producing the
best coding models you know I mean
there's there can be some debate there
now but um you know there's a great curs
story from cursor actually where cursor
basically wasn't that good and then
sonnet 3.5 came out and all of a sudden
cursor was amazing and cursor became a
tool that everybody started using but it
wasn't until this other model came out
and they made that the default model and
um you know I for what it's worth I
think the take away from that which is a
kind of big theme we see in the market
as a thing that uh the cloud code team
has talked about is um you just
constantly have to be building ahead
with AI in a way that is very unique in
the world of software where you kind of
always want to build things that are
working at like 70 or 80% because if you
really spend the time to get it up to 90
or 100 you're going to lose all the
gains you get when the next model comes
out
>> and the you know with the amount of
capex being spent on these models like
there's there's a next model that's
going to come out that's going to be
awesome and and you just kind of want to
be downstream from that and you don't
want to waste six months getting an
extra 3% when that new model is going to
give you an extra seven.
>> Yeah. This is the only certainty with AI
is like there's always going to be a new
model, right?
>> The the the worst model we'll ever use
is the one that we're using today.
>> That's right. That's right. Um are we
all going to become coding illiterate?
Are we just going to forget how to code
if everyone's using, you know, general
language to do
>> forget? I never learned. Yeah. Okay.
>> You know what I've been thinking about?
You know that um uh Scott Karp, the CEO
of Palunteer, and he has that line. He's
like, "When I was young, I was too poor
to have a car or so I didn't get a so I
never learned to drive. And now I'm too
rich, so I never learned to drive." I
feel like when I was young, I was too
dumb to learn to code. And now
>> you leaped ahead.
>> Yeah. Now I'm too smart to learn Python
or HTML or whatever.
>> I have a couple takes on this person.
one personally. So, um first one is I I
just think like this is the worry of all
technology ever. There was a paper that
came out that showed that people were um
uh you know they were forgetting more
things or something because they were
using chatgd but you know uh in Fadrris
Plato was worried that people were going
to forget things because they started
writing things down. Um and you know I
think the trade-off there was pretty
good. We got the scientific revolution a
couple other things. So um uh you know I
think that's the sort of natural
knee-jerk um with that said it is I I
it's very strange when you have people
um you know the claude code team is
talking about how little code they
write. Um, now I I draw a distinction
between the sort of vibe coding and the
kind of amateur people who have never
written code and I think that is amazing
by the way and I think um there's a lot
of software developers who are really
mad about that um because they're uh
they they claim it's for safety reasons
or whatever but I think fundamentally
it's just they've got people on their
turf. Um but I I think that's
incredible. I mean, my I my my
9-year-old um vibecoded a website uh Oh,
wow. and uh for secret Santa. Um she's
now 10. Uh she would get mad at me if I
called her nine, but I think she voded
when she was nine. Um uh but uh
>> that that's awesome, right? I don't
know. That's amazing. That's a a way for
people to express themselves in a way
that they couldn't before you did your
your linguistics project. That's
>> that's fun and interesting. Um, but
yeah, I I also think the other the the
thing that's happening with professional
software developers when you hear from
Anthropic or or you know when I'm
talking about it's you know the the code
is going through this process and you
know all the code still gets reviewed by
people. We're not letting it get out the
door if it's not at the same level as
human and it's just but what's amazing
is I'm I'm running five of these
sessions at a time, right? And so I've
got like software being developed in
parallel in a way that is unimaginable.
And you know the other thing is just now
the best software engineers wrote the
least code anyway. Um you know the the
sort of classic story of like the
difference between a junior developer
and a senior developer is that a junior
developer gets a problem and they sit
down and they put their fingers on the
keyboard and they start writing code.
and a senior developer gets a problem
and sits there for three hours and tries
to figure out what the best way to solve
it is and then spends five minutes
writing code to get it done.
>> True elegance is restraint. That's what
I say.
>> What are you seeing in the companies
you're working for? Like I find it hard
to believe
and I was maybe skeptical of this but it
feels like right now we're here with
technology where like if I were like
companies like like I said you can build
charts of data in a way that used to be
like someone would have had to get their
hands dirty etc. in the companies that
you talk to. Is right now this having an
effect on how they think about what
positions they're hiring for and the
skills they're looking for and so forth?
>> I think that
it's hard to answer right now. Um I
think that certainly
>> I do think a I personally think if I
look at the sort of layoffs in the
technology industry over the last couple
years I I think some part of that is
just looking at the output of these
models and saying hey
>> uh these models are able to produce at
you know the median and I have a whole
bunch of sort of middle managers who are
producing at the 65th percentile and
it's like I can produce median for a$150
per million tokens or I can produce
65th% percentile for however many
hundreds of thousands of dollars a year.
It's it's a sort of fairly simple
trade-off.
>> I think so. I I do think there's a lot
of downstream effects. I think the other
thing that's happening is is kind of
like middle management is under threat
because it's the realization that hey,
like part of what these models are
amazing at is is I think of them as like
a fuzzy interface. They can sort of turn
any data into any other data, right? You
can sort of transform data from one
format to another. You can take a PDF
and you can turn it into charts, right?
And there's whole people who exist or
you know if you think about what product
managers do a lot of what product
managers do is they take how people are
using a product and they try to
transform it into a a format that
engineers can then use to figure out
what to do. And I think a lot of those
kind of um uh a lot of those pieces that
used to just be kind of transferring
knowledge.
I've always said Tracy um I think a one
of the most important roles in any
organization is essentially translation
work and you see it in the newsroom
where it's like here is a team
specialized in emerging market
currencies and then they have to like
they have to then tell the senior
editors what they're working on but the
senior editors who are maybe more
generalists don't really know like why
like some sort of like you know Juan Yen
Kerry is important and that a really
important role within any organization
is essentially the the team that can
translate between the generalist team
and the specialist team. Absolutely.
>> And so I that's an interesting
observation in the sort of engineering
world of like okay these are tools that
are in some sense translation tools.
>> So we talked I agree completely by the
way but we talked about vibe coding and
Joe has this application um that I don't
think you're looking to monetize.
>> No it's I'm just trying to make it for
the good of the world.
>> Right. Okay.
>> When did that become a crime?
>> Um
>> I'm not monetizing it. But like this
opens up massive questions for software
as a service, right? For SAS because if
everyone can write their own software,
um you can replicate anything that's out
there that is currently charging money.
What's going to happen to software?
[snorts]
>> I think software is pretty screwed.
>> A lot of it at least. Not all of it. You
know, you still uh it depends on whether
you call the cloud provider software or
not. Um you know, you still need to run
this stuff somewhere. And I think
there's there's certain kinds of
software that, you know, you just don't
really want to be in the business of
writing. Um, you know, I I as someone
who's tried to build a project
management system, I I'd really rather I
don't think anybody should be in that
business. Um, but I I do think
fundamentally, I mean, we see this every
day inside enterprises. the the sort of
build versus buy pendulum has just swung
and and you know I mean I used to run a
SAS company and we sold to enterprises
and um you know for a long time that
that I think that made a lot of sense
right because like hey it just didn't
make sense to try to build this thing on
your own
>> and so but the price of that was you
know one the price right like and and it
got to be more and more expensive the
other price was that you were paying for
a lot of stuff you didn't need right
because the whole job of building SAS is
you need to generalize problems and so
you build things that are going to work
for everybody and that means either you
have to sort of adapt or you have to
build this sort of very configurable um
software. uh and I think and and what I
see just you know firsthand is that uh
inside these organizations you can now
solve very specific problems that are
highly valuable
>> and not only can you solve them better
than generic software but you can
actually in a lot of ways do it for less
money because you're trying to tackle
less stuff you didn't need the 16 other
features you bought it for the one that
you really really cared about Um, and so
I I think that part of it, you know, I
don't like there's I I definitely think
there are pieces of the software
industry that are gonna, you know, come
out the other side. You're gonna Nobody
wants to deal with payroll, right? Like,
you know, somebody you're still going to
buy some payroll software and and you're
still going to have that. But, um, you
know, I do think there are a lot of
pieces where the software existed
essentially as a a kind of wrapper
around a database and now you're just
going to, you know, with just the
database you can do that. And then you
know the other piece I'd say here is
it's this is not there's a kind of
confluence of circumstances where it's
not just the coding it's also the fact
that you have AI to do a whole bunch of
work. So you know if we pick on CRM for
a second right like you know
>> salesforce.com
>> salesforce.com we can you know you look
at what the interface of that is and
essentially it has existed to get
salespeople to take unstructured data
which is sales meetings and turn it into
structured data that so it can be stored
in a database and now you have AI and AI
is very capable of taking unstructured
data
>> directly from the source. So you have
people recording meetings and then it
can structure it into any data that you
want. This is one of the very first sort
of mind-blowing moments I had was that I
could give it uh a JSON interface. I
could describe exactly what I wanted the
data structure to be and it would give
me back that information and that data
structure. And we've just basically been
having a bunch of humans do that work
for a very long time, whether it's in
CRM or project management or any of
these other places. and the ability to
just kind of get rid of that whole
thing. It I think it really does bring
into question the value of a lot of
these software companies.
>> Well, so we have seen like a lot of
software stocks they look like melting
ice cubes right now. Maybe they so what
is so I want to talk I mean this is like
you know our listeners who are investors
there's a pretty high stakes question of
like what residual value there is but
talk a little bit more about Salesforce.
Maybe this would be a time to learn what
sal
>> what it actually does
>> as it's massively being disrupted now we
get around to learning what Salesforce
is. But I know it's like many things
there are apps that people built on to
Salesforce. But this sounds like we're
hitting on what I think probably one of
the crucial questions for like the
future of the software industry. So talk
a little bit more about like the current
approach and what people are buying when
they buy a package or subscribe to a
service from Salesforce and then what
the unlock opportunity is from having AI
like live in the same world as all your
files.
>> Yeah. So I think if you if we take CRM
as the general category so you know the
biggest players there are
>> that's customer relationship
>> customer relationship management that's
like what you know Salesforce does it
SAP does it HubSpot does it for the
midmarket um
>> you know when I think about that product
and I think about the way we've used it
inside enterprise sales organizations
essentially you know it's a database of
companies it's a database of contacts
it's a database of deals you have in the
pipeline and it's a way to track all
those deals you guys hit on something
before that I think is is really it
which is like inside companies there is
a huge group of people and who exist to
answer the question from management of
what is the status of something
>> right and you know that can be sales
management it can be product management
it doesn't matter right it could be
within a newsroom somebody wants to know
what the status is and somebody else
exists to go figure out what the answer
to that question is and so fundamentally
I think those CRM tools are bought first
and foremost to answer what is the
status right? What's my pipeline look
like? Um, and to answer what your
pipeline looks like, you need a bunch of
sales people putting deals in. Um, and
those deals are associated with contacts
and companies. And they say, "When is
that deal going to close?" And and and
essentially, you were asking the
salespeople to make the updates in the
system to do that. And just very
tactically, I mean, you know, I I run a
company now. We talk to a lot of we have
a lot of sales calls. We record those
calls and they get transcribed and the
AI then looks through them and makes
decisions about where this deal should
be in the process. And it's much better
than having somebody try to go updated
because those people never updated
anyway. The secret of all of this
enterprise software is that nobody was
using it the way that anybody wanted to
anyway.
>> Um, and so, you know, I think that that
is sort of, you know, a lot of what's
happening there. Again, it's sort of
some of it's the coding, some of it's
just the core capabilities and then, you
know, you still need databases, right?
So, it's like, you know, you look at
what data bricks and snowflake and you
know, I think those folks are still sort
of genuinely sitting in a pretty good
place where, you know, all software has
to sit on side on top of some database
that you can sort of read and write to.
Um, but you know, I think some of those
categories that were
>> specifically focused on kind of like
human input. Um now of course you know
Salesforce has a whole AI thing and
they're saying hey we you shouldn't have
humans inputting in Salesforce you know
to at sales is just one small piece they
have a whole customer support thing
which obviously also has an interesting
implication where you know you're doing
support with AI agents and so some of it
comes back to seats I mean you know it
gets to be fairly complicated but I do
think I think the fundamental underlying
thing is anybody who buys software that
is you know SAS you're always buying
paying for a subset of the functionality
that that's nobody is using 100% of the
functionality of SAS. And so there's
always a trade-off that's happening
there where you know you're spending
more money than you need to because
you're not using all of these pieces.
And so you know if you can more narrowly
focus that that is where you could say
hey we could solve this kind of more
narrow problem and not only can we solve
it more narrowly we can solve it way
more effectively because you know the
trick with AI is that the more specific
you are with it the better the output is
right so it's like if you know if
outside of coding if you just ask chat
GPD to write you a story it's going to
write you a very very median story right
um sort of exactly the median but if you
work with it and you you know, then
you're going to get it. The more of your
own expertise you imbue in it, the
further up above the median it's going
to be. And it's going to be, you know,
of course that also means it's less what
where the line is between what's AI and
what's not AI is going to continue to
get blurriier.
>> Joe, how much does clawed code actually
cost? Do you know?
>> Well, I paid for the uh 200 a month $200
a month version, but like
>> high roller.
>> Yeah, I know. But uh you know I think
it's you can get it with the pro version
of like or whatever the sub the version
of that below $20, but I hit a limit
fairly quickly and I was like I didn't
have my website up. So like and then I
bought the five then I paid $5 for the
extra compute. I was like this is dumb.
I think I just Yeah.
>> Okay. So
>> we going out to two nice dinners in a
month. It's not you know when I think
about that way it doesn't seem that big
of a deal.
>> It's worth it to you. Okay. So, I think
we can all agree this is like a valuable
service that Claude Code is providing,
but we touched on this in the intro. It
seems like the models just keep
replicating themselves really, really
quickly. So, anything that Claude Code
can do, I would expect another model
will come in in like a month, maybe
less, and do the exact same thing. What
does that mean for the actual like
valuations of these companies and the
models? like how are they going to
monetize it when it seems so difficult
>> to actually differentiate yourself
especially for like a substantial
>> portion of time. Yeah.
>> Well, so again here I think we have to
distinguish between claude code and the
claude model. So in Claude Code's case,
if you're using, [snorts] you know, the
latest version, you're using Opus 4.5,
which is the model, Opus 4.5 has a price
of, I don't know, something in the $150
to $2 for a million input tokens and
whatever it is on the output, which is
like roughly the going rate for cutting
edge models. Gemini 3 Pro is the same
price. Uh uh OpenAI, Chad GBD 5.2 is
they're they're all the same price. So
the first thing is is you have to
differentiate between those. Um, and so
I think a big part of what Anthropic is
trying to do is they're trying to lock
people into Claude Code. In fact, there
was just some um, uh, controversy
amongst some nerds, um, where, uh, Open
Code, which is a competitor to Claude
Code, um, used to let you use your
Claude Max $200. So, the trick with the
Claude Max plan is if you're just buying
those that number of tokens, it would
cost you significantly more than $200.
It is a super super discounted plan. you
are probably you have the access I I I
have the access to use I would guess in
the thousand or 2 thousand dollars of
tokens um uh for my $200 a month. So
it's it's a very very heavily subsidized
plan and open code which is an open-
source version of Claude Code a sort of
competitor um they had found a way that
they would let you use your Claude Max
plan with open code
>> and Anthropic last week
>> shut that down. Yeah. Um, and some open
code people got very upset um because
they said like this is not what you're
supposed to do or I'm not sure exactly
what they said. I I never felt like I I
got a particularly good argument out of
it. Um but uh you know I do think part
of what they're trying to get at because
is
that you know at the very top models
like these are all amazing like the
Google
openai and anthropic their best models
are all on par with each other. I mean I
I would move them around a little bit. I
I still think Opus 4.5 is the best model
out there, but you know, I mean that
might change tomorrow like and that's
where something like cloud code is
really interesting because it's a a
product that is very it's just theirs.
It's not it's a piece of software. It's
not an AI model. Um and so it's sort of
it's less able to be disrupted. Now
again I I think if if somebody else
wanted to copy that exactly they could.
Codeex has one. Gemini has one. I just
think they take a very different tact
with it where it's much less and so you
know I think what they're trying to do
is get developers like me to feel very
comfortable inside that so that when we
go open I still open codeex or try
Gemini or I was playing with open code
the other day and um it just doesn't
feel familiar in the same way that you
know if you're trying to move somebody
from a PC to a Mac it doesn't feel
familiar
>> right they want to own like the
ecosystem I guess environment the
environment
>> work on what a world Noah thank you so
much for coming on a lot I was like
dying to do an episode about this topic.
By the way, I don't have AI psychosis. I
have a Claude complex.
>> Why is everyone making that joke?
>> Wait, which joke?
>> The psychosis joke.
>> I thought you were going to be proud of
me for saying Claude complex.
>> Oh. Oh, that is very good.
>> I It's like I do one pun finally for
Tracy and she just like for making that
joke.
>> Well, I was I was I was handing you a I
finally make a pun and you just jump
right over it.
>> Well, everyone keeps saying that Claude
code is AI psychosis for smart people,
right? Like, how did that become a
thing? addictive.
>> Yeah. All right.
>> But there's a good pun.
>> It's also very brocoded. I find
>> You think so?
>> All of AI is brocoded.
>> Uh, this is true. We should talk more
about this. You know, we should have
David Shore on. He's been doing a lot of
polling about various demographics and
how they feel about AI.
>> We should um and some interesting stuff.
I'd be into that. Yeah, we should uh do
that. Anyway, Noah, thank you so much
for coming on out loud.
>> Thanks for having me.
>> Well, that was fun, Tracy. I really like
I it's obvious to anyone who's been
within five minutes five feet of me for
the last two weeks. I'm like totally
addicted and gone down I never gone down
the rabbit hole and stuff but like I for
the first time unironically I'm like
okay this is transformative technology
beyond being very impressive technology
>> right so I've been coming to a
conclusion which is that you know
>> AI can be both underhyped
>> and overvalued simultaneously like and I
I feel like that's kind of where we are
at the moment
>> is that where you're making your stop
call. Yeah. No, but seriously, like it
>> it's a big deal. It's going to change
the way we work, but is it monetizable?
Can you differentiate the actual models?
The better the technology gets, like the
easier it is to just do what everyone
else is doing. And also like the compute
gets cheaper and cheaper. So, I just
don't know how you monetize this.
>> Well, so that's very interesting his
point, which is that it's the tokens are
heavily subsidized still. Yeah. And so
that if you're paying and actually using
that $200 max program and you actually
use it to the limit, Claude is going to
lose money on this and then the prices
keep dropping. And I know like Claude
Code is okay, they're attempting to
create something that resembles a
traditional software ecosystem that you
feel as a user that you're locked into.
But so far in my various like since
November 2022 when I started playing
with AI, it hasn't felt like anyone has
established lock in with anything and
it's very
>> um uh it's very movable and I suspect
even though I have this file now on my
desktop that has a file called claude MD
that gives instructions etc. I'm certain
that if I open this file with codecs or
Google's I could probably just pick it
up the same.
>> Yeah. I also think there's a fundamental
issue with the lockin strategy because
when you're talking about technology and
the internet like it just feels very
against the grain to try to lock people
into anything and we've seen various
projects over the years and it's it's a
lot harder than it looks.
>> Yeah. I mean I guess I would say it's a
lot harder than it looks but then we
also know the flip side which is that
tons of people are locked into software
that they hate. Right. People are Oh, I
hate people. How many times have you,
oh, I I hate Outlook, right? Or I hate
Microsoft Teams and I hate this and I
spend money on it every month and my
organization can't move off of it or we
can't migrate off of it. So, I do think
that cuts both ways. I do think he
offered the best explanation I've heard
of why the AI coding models are a threat
to a lot of pretty big software
businesses, especially totally
especially the point about how the user
never uses all of the features that they
actually that the software got built for
and therefore maybe the build versus buy
calculation really starts to shift when
they can just design that one feature
very quickly.
>> Um I totally agree on the software side.
It seems like an existential threat, but
just like the locked in ecosystem of a
particular model. Um, I know you said
it's not actually a model, but that
seems like a bigger issue to me. I don't
know. I guess we'll see.
>> We're going to see. And I don't know. I
kind of think we're going to see
quickly.
>> Yeah. That's again, that's the only
certainty is like stuff is happening
fast.
>> Stuff is happening now. Yeah.
>> All right. Shall we leave it there?
>> Let's leave it there.
>> Okay. This has been another episode of
the Odd Thoughts podcast. I'm Tracy
Aloway. You can follow me at Tracy
Aloway.
>> And I'm Joe Weisenthal. You can follow
me at the stalwart. Follow our guest
Noah Brier. He's at Hey, it's Noah.
Follow our producers Carmen Rodriguez at
Carmen Arman Dashelob Bennett at Dashbot
and Kalebrooks at Kalebrooks.
>> And for more Athoughts content uh and to
see what Joe has actually been working
on with Claude Code, check out our daily
newsletter. You can find that at
bloomberg.comthoughts.
And uh you can join fellow listeners in
conversation 247 in our discord
discord.ggods.
>> And if you enjoyed this conversation, if
you like it when we talk about AI, then
please leave a comment or like the video
or better yet subscribe.
>> Thanks for watching.
[music]
>> [music]